# INVENTORY MANAGEMENT DASHBOARD
1. ABC Classification
2. XYZ Classification
3. Inventory Turnover Ratio
4. Safety Stock Levels
5. Estimation of Reorder Levels and Safety stock
6. Calculation of Average weekly demands
6. Stock Status
7. Forecasting for the next time period

#For any warehouse inventory related data, 2 main tables are important
	1. What is the stock quantity
	2. What is the orders/Asked Orders
	
#The way we classify ABC analysis is based on the revenue it generates. So we have to check for each SKU, how much is the revenue annually.

#Against each SKU, we will try to get the annual sales qty from the "Past Orders" data

Step 1. We created following new columns on stock data
	1. Annual sales quantity : We calculated the quantity of each SKU ID. Quantity was present in "Past Orders" Column
	
	2. Annual Revenue : Annual sales quantity * unit price
	
	3. Revenue Share % : % share of each SKUs with respect to total revenue
	(Formula = Individual revenue / total revenue)
	
	Note: While scrolling down, you will see empty cells in above 3 columns, which means no SKU ID were placed or ordered within the given time period(mentioned in the formula of "Annual sales quantity" column)
	
	As we wanted 0 in place of empty cells in column "Revenue Share %", we added a 0 in the formula.
	
	Q) Why did we populate empty cells with 0 and not leave them just blank?
	Ans) While taking average etc.. the blank cells won't be considered but it should be considered so we populated the empty cells with 0.
	
	FORMULA LESSON : In DAX, EARLIER is a function that allows you to refer to a previous row context within an iterating function. It is typically used in calculated columns or measures that involve iterating over a table.
	
	4. Cummulative Share = Cummulative sum of Revenue Share % value 
	[Remeber when u add cumulative sum, PowerBI automatically sorts the "Revenue Share %" column in descending order]
	
	Note : ABC analysis follows Pareto Principle so 70-80% of revenue is generated by 20% of the stock/inventory.
		
	5. ABC ? : Categorized the stocks as 'A','B','C' using "Cummulative Share" column, 
		a. stocks from 0-70 will come under 'A' category
		b. stocks from 70-90 will come under 'B' category
		c. stocks from 90+ will come under 'C' category
		
Step 2. Adding new graph to check if ABC categorization follows Pareto Principle:
	a. Added a link and stack column chart
	b. x axis : ABC ?
	c. y axis : Annual Revenue
	d. Line value : % of SKU ID (To check the Pareto Principle)
	
Step 3 : XYZ Classification 
			Definition of XYZ CLass. : 
				XYZ Classification is a method of inventory management that categorizes items based on their demand variability and level of importance. This method is also known as the ABC-XYZ analysis, as it is often used in conjunction with the ABC Classification method, which categorizes items based on their value.

				In XYZ Classification, items are categorized into three groups:
				
				X items: These are items that have the lowest demand variability and are the easiest to forecast. They are typically managed using a reorder point (ROP) approach, where inventory is replenished when it falls below a certain level.

				Y items: These are items that have moderate demand variability and are relatively easier to forecast. They are typically managed using a make-to-stock (MTS) approach, where production is based on a forecast of demand.

				Z items: These are items that have the highest demand variability and are the most difficult to forecast accurately. They are typically managed using a make-to-order (MTO) approach, where production is triggered by customer orders, rather than by a forecast.

				The XYZ Classification method is often used in combination with the ABC Classification method, which categorizes items based on their value. This allows companies to prioritize their inventory management efforts based on both the demand variability and the value of the items.
				
				MTS : MTS is a strategy in which goods are produced based on anticipated customer demand, before actual customer orders are received. This means that goods are manufactured and stocked in inventory, in anticipation of future sales. In other words, MTS companies create products based on a forecast of what customers will want to buy.
				
				MTO : MTO is a strategy in which goods are produced only after a customer places an order. This means that goods are manufactured in response to a specific customer request. MTO companies create products based on the specific requirements of each customer.
			
Step 4: To do XYZ analysis, We need to analyze the weekly demand for each item
	a. Modelling -> New Table -> Name should be "Week Table"
	b. Write a formula to create a date series from "14th June 2020 - 365" to "14th June 2020" with a increment of 7 to make it weekly
	c. Modelling -> New Table -> Name should be "SKU Table" (This table would contain all the SKU ID)
	d. Write a formula to fetch all SKUs in SKU Table
	
	Now for every week, we will have to monitor all SKUs Demand

Step 5: CROSS JOIN both Week Table and SKU Table
	a. Modelling -> New Table -> "Weekly Demand Sheet"
	b. CROSSJOIN both table using GENERATE
	c. In this case, the GENERATE function would create a new table that combines every row of the 'Week Table' with every row of the 'SKU Table'.

Step 6: Create a new column "Weeks Demand" in "Weekly Demand Sheet" Table with the below formula:
	Weeks Demand = CALCULATE(
    SUM('Past Orders'[Order Quantity]),
    FILTER('Past Orders',
        'Past Orders'[SKU ID]='Weekly Demand Sheet'[SKU ID] &&
        'Past Orders'[Order Date] >= 'Weekly Demand Sheet'[Week Date]-6 &&
        'Past Orders'[Order Date] <= 'Weekly Demand Sheet'[Week Date]
    )
	)+0
	
	Note : 'Past Orders'[Order Date] >= 'Weekly Demand Sheet'[Week Date]-6 : The reason we use -6 is because we using >= , if we used just > then we could have used -7
	
	We used +0 at the end because we don't need blanks.
	
Step 7: Add a new column "Average Weekly Demand" in "Stocks" Table
	Note : SKU IDs in STOCK table is unique(no duplicates)
	a. We take the average demand of each stock in "Weekly Demand Sheet.Weeks Demand" column and populate the value in this new column
	
Step 8: We need to calculate the standard deviation for demand of each SKU
	a. Make a new column "Stdev of Weekly Demand"
	b. Use the below formula
		Stdev of Weekly Demand = CALCULATE(
		STDEV.P('Weekly Demand Sheet'[Weeks Demand]),
		FILTER('Weekly Demand Sheet',
			'Weekly Demand Sheet'[SKU ID]=Stock[SKU ID]
		)
		)
	
Step 9: Add coeff of variation Column in "Stocks" table
	a. The formula is = Stdev of Weekly Demand / Average Weekly Demand
	
	Note : So whenevr the coeff. of Variation is very less, that means Stdev is very less compared to its average weekly demand, that means it is a very uniform demand scale.
	When the coeff. of Variation is very high, that means the demand is very high, so it means it is not uniform or uncertain demand.
	
	So, We ned to allocate smaller coeff. of variation, under 'X' category, High coeff. of variation would be categorized as 'Z' category, and whatever comes in between is 'Y' category.
	
	so we need to decide a threshold for classification, usually first 20% items are considered under 'X', next 30% under 'Y' and remaining under 'Z'.
	
Step 10: Make a new column and rank those using "Coeff. of Variation" column in ascending order
	a. Use "RANK.EQ" as the RANK.EQ function assigned a unique rank

Step 11: We can see many NULL/NaN values in "Stdev of Weekly Demand" column so we modified the formula of the column.
	a. We assign "1000" value to the coeff. of Variation, when the respective "Stdev of Weekly Demand" is equal to 0
	b. We doing this because when ranking "coeff. of Variation" using RANK.EQ, the NaN values were getting ranked as 1 and we didn't want that so we replaced the NaN values with 1000 in "Coeff. of Variation" column
	
Step 12: Make a new column 'XYZ' column for XYZ classification:
	a. Assign 20% of the RANK.EQ column items under X, 30% under Y and remaining under Z

Step 13: Make a new column "Value in WH" means Value in Warehouse
	a. Formula : Quantity * unit price
	
Step 14: Make a new column "ABC Rank" as this will be helpful to create a ABC Pareto Chart
	a. We rank based on "Cummulative Share" column
	
Step 15: Add a new measure : Inventory Turnover ratio (This ratio tells us how effecient our inventory management is)
	a. Formula = Costs of Goods Sold(COGS) Annually / Avg Inventory value in WH(Warehouse)
	
	Note : The reason we make it as "New Measure" and not "new column" is because:
		# A measure is evaluated in the context of the cell evaluated in a report or in a DAX query, whereas a calculated column is computed at the row level within the table it belongs to
		# Use this link to understand : https://community.powerbi.com/t5/Desktop/What-is-the-difference-between-a-measure-and-calculated-column/td-p/2900507
		#A new column can be used to perform calculations at a row level, whereas a new measure is used to perform calculations at an aggregated level, such as summing up a column or calculating an average.
		#A new column adds new data to your data model, which can increase the size of your data model. A new measure does not add new data to your data model, and therefore does not affect the size of your data model.

Step 16: Now its time to do some visualization, starting with Pareto Chart
	a. Create a Stacked Area chart with X-axis = ABC Rank, Y-axis = Cummulative	Share, Legend = ABC ?
	
	Results: Here we see that this classification follows pareto principle where cummulative share of 'A' is alomt 70%
	
Step 17: Now we will create a ABC-XYZ Matrix -> name it as "Distribution of Anuual Revenue"
	a. Create a Matrix with X-axis as ABC ? , Y-axis as XYZ ? , Values = Sum of Annual Revenue
	b. Now change the Revenue values to "Millions" Unit
		1. Select the matrix -> Visual -> Specific column -> Values -> Display Units -> Select Millions -> Lessen the decimals
	c. Disable Row Totals and Column Totals
	d. Add conditional formating (See the visual)
	
	Results : What this matrix tells is for- against each type of category (ABC or XYZ), What is the distribution of our annual revenue
	
Step 18: Current Stock Value Distribution
	a. Create a Matrix with X-axis as ABC ? , Y-axis as XYZ ? , Values = SUM of Value of WH
	b. Now change the Revenue values to "Millions" Unit
		1. Select the matrix -> Visual -> Specific column -> Values -> Display Units -> Select Millions -> Lessen the decimals
	c. Disable Row Totals and Column Totals
	d. Add conditional formating (See the visual)
	
	Observation :
		# When we see the "Distribution of Anuual Revenue" matrix, we see the highest value of of the cell (A-X i.e High Value - Less Demand Variability)
		# But when we see the "Current Stock Value Distribution" matrix, we observe high value cells to be in (B-Z , C-Z i.e medium to low value - High Demand Variability / Uncertainity)
		# This usually happens because as we are uncertain of B-Z or C-Z item demands, We tend to stock up high to improve the service value

Step 19: Select Card and add "Inventory Turnover Ratio"

Step 20: Select Card and add Count of "SKU IDs"

Step 21: Select Card and add SUM of "Value in WH"

Step 22: Distribution of Inventory Turnover Ration against ABC-XYZ:
	a. a. Create a Matrix with X-axis as ABC ? , Y-axis as XYZ ? , Values = SUM of Value of WH
	b. Disable Row Totals and Column Totals
	c. Add conditional formating (See the visual)
	
	Note: The more the inventory turnover ratio, the better our efficiency.
	
	Observation : We can see Uniform Demand Items(X) got high inventory turnover ratio which means these inventories are doing extremely well becuase the lesser we store, the better the service level

Now , we are going to calculate Satefy Stocks and Re-Order Points
Safety Stock formula = (Peak Demand) * (Max Lead Time) - (Avg. demand) * (Avg. Lead Time)
Note : here we will be calculating it in weeks

Step 23: Add a column "Peak Weekly Demand" (We need this column for Safety stock calculation)
	a. Identify peak demand of each SKU by taking max weekly demand of each SKU from "Weekly Demand Sheet" table

Step 24: Calculate Satefy Stock
	a.Formula : Safety Stock = ( Stock[Peak Weekly Demand] * Stock[Maximum Lead Time (days)]/7 ) - ( Stock[Average Weekly Demand] * Stock[Average Lead Time (days)]/7 )
	
	b. Here we are dividing "Maximum Lead Time (days)" and "Average Lead Time (days)" by 7 as These values are in days unit and we are calculating Satefy Stock in week level
	
Step 25: Calculate Re-Order Point
	a. ROP = Satefy Stock(SS) + (Avg. Demand) * (Avg. Lead Time)
	
Step 26: Now after calculating ROP, We want to see if their is any Ordering required as of now
	a. Whenever the current stock is equal or lesser than ROP, then we need to re-order
	b. So, add a column "Is Ordering Required ?"
	
Step 27: To categorize the items based on stock quantity, whether they are in stock or out of stock
	a. Add a column "Stock status"
	b. If Current Stock Quantity = 0 then "Out of stock" else "in stock"
	c. If it is in "In stock" then we need to check if it is below ROP(Re-Order point) or below SS(Safety Stock).
	
Step 28: We want to see how many re-orders are required (Count of "Yes" in column "Is Ordering Required")
	a. click or check the box(Is Ordering required) -> click on "Yes" in Basic Filtering column -> click on "CARD" visual to change it into a card visual.
	Note : This card is shifted to Page-1 visual
	
Step 29: To show the same above visual in Gauge instead of stock
	a. Add a new measure "SKUs to reorder" and count SKUs with "Yes" in column "Is ordering required"
	b. The "yes" count has come up to 284 but by default the max gauge value has come to double(568) but we want max gauge valu to be the total count of SKUs so we add SKU ID in "Maximum value" field.
	
Step 28: Distribution based on stock status
	a. Add Donut chart
	b. Legend = Stock Status , Values = Count of SKU ID

Step 29: Push 3 columns "ROP" , "SS" and "Stock Status" in the previously created table at left-bottom of the visual

Step 30: What is the flow of revenue and quantity out of warehouse for each SKUs and overall as well
	a. To populate the stock.unitprice * weekly demand sheet.quantity, use "LOOKUPVALUE"
	b. FORMULA :  = LOOKUPVALUE(Stock[Unit Price],Stock[SKU ID],'Weekly Demand Sheet'[SKU ID]) * 'Weekly Demand Sheet'[Weeks Demand']
	Here we look up the unit price of each SKUs from the Stock table and then multiple it with Weeks Demand(qty)
	
	
Step 31: Add a relationship between Stock sheet and Weekly Demand Sheet
	Note : The reason we are doing this is because:
		a. All the visualization made till now are from stock sheet, so whenever we click on a particular element in visual, the other visuals change as well.
		b. But as we are about to create a visual from Weekly Demand sheet, click on a different element of a visual might not change the visual from Weekly demand sheet or vic versa.
		c. Hence we need to create a relationship
		
	a. Modelling -> Manage relationships -> then add weekly demand sheet and select SKUID -> then add stock sheet and select SKUID

STEP 32: 
		a. Add clustered column chart
		b. X-axis = Week Date , Y-axis = SUM of Weeks Demand (to get quantity wise flow) , or add Y-axis = SUM of Sales Amount(To get revenue wise flow)
		c. Make it a line chart, as it gives an added advantage of adding a forecast
		d. Microsoft says the forecast is a exponential smoothing forecast, we don't know the smoothing constant but they have something as confidence interval
		e. To do forecast, click on the search icon -> turn on Forecast -> add 5 points(we need to forecast 5 points only)
		f. You can add 2 in "Ignore the last" to see if the actual and forecasted lines are matching or not or how good the forecasting is. So if you select 2 then it will start predicting from 2 points before the actual data ends.
	
